Mutators are public member functions that allow us to change the state of an object.
So in this date class,
a mutator function for example might be this day function.
We pass in a value for a day to the Day mutator function,
sometimes this is called a setter function,
it might be named SetDay although in this case I've just named it Day.
Then when we come down to the actual definition of the day function,
this is our mutator here,
it mutates the day_private member variable,
then we can update the value of the state or we can update the state of the object.
Often, we want to create a mutator function if there's some invariant to the class
that's like a logic or some limit to how we can set the state of the class.
So in this case for example a day needs to be somewhere between one and
the number of days in the particular month and year of the overall date,
so we couldn't set the day value to negative 2 or to 1,000.
So instead of making this a public member variable,
we make it a private member variable and then control
its mutation through this mutator function Day,
and this allows us to set the invariant logic for the class and limit
the value of day to the actual values that are valid for the class.
You can see we also have mutator functions for month,
this could just as easily be called SetMonth,
I've just called it Month,
you could name it whatever you want,
month has an invariant.
Down here, year does not have an invariant so you might think,
"We could make year a public member as opposed to a private member," and that's
certainly possible although one thing we see is way up here in the day function,
we actually use the year to calculate whether the day is valid.
So we might not want to limit how you
can change year because if somebody comes along and says,
"I want to change February 29th 2016,
I just want to change the year to
2017," then all of a sudden that day will become invalid.
So we might put some check here
to say after we've set year to year,
we might even do it beforehand,
we might have some function that says
if setting this year is valid,
then update the year otherwise don't,
of course then we'd have to create this valid function.
But that's the whole point of mutators to allow us to set invariant logic for the class,
and prevent a user from setting member data to an invalid state.